Practical Assessment for a Research Data Analyst
Stanford Center for Ocean Solutions

This Practical Assessment for recruitment of the Research Data Analyst is intended to be a self-guided exercise based on the information provided. Please review the information from the three csv files included in the “data” folder as well as the assessment questions below and reply with your submission by or before the time noted via the corresponding email.

Data Folder Contents
GFWVesselAssessment.csv
vessel_information.csv
Port_visit_peru.csv

The table GFWVesselAssessment.csv summarizes vessel information:
Vessel Name: name of vessel
IMO: vessel number (International Maritime Organization)
Flag: country of the vessel flag

The table port_visit_peru.csv summarizes port visit events by maritime vessels in Peru (ISO3 code: PER) from 2020 to 2022. Below is the data schema:
ssvid: vessel identity (Maritime Mobile Service Identity)
timestamp: time of the visit
label: port name
lat: latitude of the port
lon: longitude of the port

The table vessel_information.csv summarizes vessel information:
ssvid: vessel identity (Maritime Mobile Service Identity)
flag: ISO3 code of the vessel flag (i.e., country where a vessel is under jurisdiction)
vessel_class: fishing, carrier vessels, bunker vessels, etc.
gear_type: type of fishing gear for fishing vessels
Assessment Questions

Assessment of Familiarity with Content
The initial assessment content focuses on the candidate’s existing familiarity with the relevant content of interest, or the ability to quickly familiarize oneself with new content and terminology.

Using GFWVesselAssessment.csv
Using the Combined IUU Vessel List, which vessels (if any) are listed as IUU vessels?
For each vessel listed as an IUU vessel: state the Regional Fisheries Management Organization (RFMO) for which the vessel is IUU listed.
Using resources available online, which vessels (if any) have flags that have been identified as Flags of Convenience?
Please provide the citation for where you found this information.

Assessment of Analysis Techniques
The secondary assessment content focuses on the candidate’s approach to analysis techniques and communication methods.

Using port_visit_peru.csv and vessel_information.csv
For each port in 2021: calculate the proportion of the number of foreign fishing vessel visits over the number of all vessel visits by fishing vessels of any gear type. 
Include blank ‘gear_type’ cells and exclude blank ‘flag’ cells. 
Here, 'foreign vessel visit' means the port visit by vessels whose flag State is different from the port State. 
Then, among the ports that received more than 10 visits by fishing vessels of any gear type (including blank ‘gear_type’) in 2021, plot the top 10 ports that received the highest proportions of foreign vessel visits (choose any plot format that you think is appropriate and best visualizes the patterns). 
Submit a summary of the steps you took so that we can follow your logic (for example, annotated script, Jupyter Notebook, R Markdown, or any format of your choice).￼ https://www.iuu-vessels.org/